computerNetworks/topTopics.md, before:

# COMPUTER NETWORK INTERVIEW PREPARATION TOP TOPICS
For any technical interviews, you're expected to know basic computer networking concepts. The below list of topics will help you to fast forward your interview preparation and get ahead. 

### Tips on preparing from this list
Along with topic name, I've also included link where you can read about it. Further start from 1st topic and then keep on moving to next topics. Don't skip the topics in between. I've tried to keep the list in sorted order of their importance/relevance/more probability of being asked in interviews. So go one by one.

#### :blue_heart: :blue_heart: If you find this repository useful, do share it with the larger group. For more such content, don't forget to subscribe to my [YouTube channel : MsDeep Singh](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC5GDb4oVOCxUESy0dZOieIw)

#### [YouTube video link on how you can study from this list in best possible way](https://youtu.be/aUVe2pWICZI)


### List of topics
1. [What is OSI model and different layers of OSI model?](https://www.javatpoint.com/osi-model)
2. [HTTP and HTTPS?](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/why-is-http-not-secure/)
3. [VPN?](https://www.kaspersky.com/resource-center/definitions/what-is-a-vpn)
4. [NAT?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/network-address-translation-nat/)
5. [TCP/IP?](https://www.javatpoint.com/computer-network-tcp-ip-model)
6. [TLS/SSL? How will you secure your network? TLS/SSL handshake?](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/transport-layer-security-tls/), [link2 on SSL](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/what-is-an-ssl-certificate/)
6. [private IP address and public IP address?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-private-and-public-ip-addresses/)
7. [DoS?](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cyberpedia/what-is-a-denial-of-service-attack-dos), [DDoS?](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cyberpedia/what-is-a-ddos-attack)
8. [Firewall?](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/security/what-is-a-firewall/)
9. [Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dynamic-host-configuration-protocol-dhcp/), [DORA process?](https://www.gns3network.com/what-is-dora-process-in-dhcp/)
10. [What happens when you type google.com in browser?](https://medium.com/@maneesha.wijesinghe1/what-happens-when-you-type-an-url-in-the-browser-and-press-enter-bb0aa2449c1a), [in more details here](https://github.com/alex/what-happens-when/blob/master/README.rst)
11. [DNS?](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/what-is-dns/), [DNS link2](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/what-is-dns/)
12. [TCP and UDP differences?](javatpoint.com/tcp-vs-udp), [TCP](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computers-and-internet/xcae6f4a7ff015e7d:the-internet/xcae6f4a7ff015e7d:transporting-packets/a/transmission-control-protocol--tcp), [UDP](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computers-and-internet/xcae6f4a7ff015e7d:the-internet/xcae6f4a7ff015e7d:transporting-packets/a/user-datagram-protocol-udp)
13. [TCP 3-way handshake?](http://www.tcpipguide.com/free/t_TCPConnectionEstablishmentProcessTheThreeWayHandsh-3.htm)
14. [IPv4 and IPv6 differences?](https://www.guru99.com/difference-ipv4-vs-ipv6.html), [IPv4](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-and-ipv4-datagram-header/), [IPv4 and IPv6 more details](https://www.cisco.com/en/US/technologies/tk648/tk872/technologies_white_paper0900aecd8054d37d.html), [IPv6](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/internet-protocol-version-6-ipv6-header/)
15. [tracert](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/tracert), [netstat](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/netstat), [ping](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/ping), [ipconfig](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/ipconfig)/[ifconfig](https://linux.die.net/man/8/ifconfig), [telnet](https://www.javatpoint.com/computer-network-telnet), [telnet command](https://www.javatpoint.com/linux-telnet-command)
16. [Gateways?](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/what-are-gateways-in-computer-network)
17. [subnetting, subnet mask?](https://www.guru99.com/subnetting-subnet-mask.html), [link2 on this](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/network-layer/what-is-a-subnet/), [link3 more details including CIDR](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/understanding-ip-addresses-subnets-and-cidr-notation-for-networking)
18. [Encryption, what is it? what's the importance?](https://www.javatpoint.com/computer-network-privacy)
19. [proxy server? what is the role of proxy server?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-proxy-server/)
20. [Network devices - Hub, switch and router?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/network-devices-hub-repeater-bridge-switch-router-gateways/)
21. [ICMP](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ddos/glossary/internet-control-message-protocol-icmp/)
22. [Media Access Control - MAC](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-of-mac-address-in-computer-network/)?
23. [What is localhost, 127.0.0.1?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-local-host/)
24. [Address Resolution Protocol - ARP](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-address-resolution-protocol-arp-works/)?
25. [Fragmentation](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/fragmentation-network-layer/) - [MSS](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/network-layer/what-is-mss/)/[MTU?](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/network-layer/what-is-mtu/)
26. [Packet segmentation?](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Packet_segmentation)
27. [Error control, Flow control](https://www.javatpoint.com/data-link-controls), [Error control techniques?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/error-control-in-data-link-layer/)
28. [SMTP?](https://www.javatpoint.com/simple-mail-transfer-protocol), [POP3](https://www.javatpoint.com/pop-protocol), [differences](https://www.hostinger.in/tutorials/email/pop3-imap-smtp-protocols-explained-ports)
29. [CSMA/CD and CSMA/CA?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/carrier-sense-multiple-access-csma/)
30. [Routing Information Protocol - RIP](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/routing-information-protocol-rip/), [How routing works on internet?](https://medium.com/@User3141592/how-does-the-internet-work-edc2e22e7eb8), [link2 on this](https://cromwell-intl.com/networking/routing.html)
31. [Data encapsulation?](https://afteracademy.com/blog/what-is-data-encapsulation-and-de-encapsulation-in-networking), [link2 on this](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E19455-01/806-0916/ipov-32/index.html)
32. [Network Interface Card - NIC](https://www.javatpoint.com/network-interface-card)?
33. [Ethernet?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/local-area-network-lan-technologies/)
34. [peer-to-peer network](https://in.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/peer-to-peer-network), [P2P and server based network?](https://afteracademy.com/blog/what-are-peer-to-peer-networks-and-server-based-networks)
35. [Network virtualization](https://blog.gigamon.com/2018/01/04/network-virtualization-optimize/)
36. [Open Shortest Path First - OSPF?](https://www.javatpoint.com/ospf-protocol)

### Social Media links
##### :point_right: Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/msdeep14/
##### :point_right: LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/msdeep14/
##### :point_right: GitHub: https://github.com/msdeep14

### Good luck :v:

Commit message:

Added What happens when you type a URL in the browser and press enter

computerNetworks/topTopics.md, after:

# COMPUTER NETWORK INTERVIEW PREPARATION TOP TOPICS
For any technical interviews, you're expected to know basic computer networking concepts. The below list of topics will help you to fast forward your interview preparation and get ahead. 

### Tips on preparing from this list
Along with topic name, I've also included link where you can read about it. Further start from 1st topic and then keep on moving to next topics. Don't skip the topics in between. I've tried to keep the list in sorted order of their importance/relevance/more probability of being asked in interviews. So go one by one.

#### :blue_heart: :blue_heart: If you find this repository useful, do share it with the larger group. For more such content, don't forget to subscribe to my [YouTube channel : MsDeep Singh](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC5GDb4oVOCxUESy0dZOieIw)

#### [YouTube video link on how you can study from this list in best possible way](https://youtu.be/aUVe2pWICZI)


### List of topics
1. [What is OSI model and different layers of OSI model?](https://www.javatpoint.com/osi-model)
2. [HTTP and HTTPS?](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/why-is-http-not-secure/)
3. [VPN?](https://www.kaspersky.com/resource-center/definitions/what-is-a-vpn)
4. [NAT?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/network-address-translation-nat/)
5. [TCP/IP?](https://www.javatpoint.com/computer-network-tcp-ip-model)
6. [TLS/SSL? How will you secure your network? TLS/SSL handshake?](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/transport-layer-security-tls/), [link2 on SSL](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/what-is-an-ssl-certificate/)
6. [private IP address and public IP address?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-private-and-public-ip-addresses/)
7. [DoS?](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cyberpedia/what-is-a-denial-of-service-attack-dos), [DDoS?](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cyberpedia/what-is-a-ddos-attack)
8. [Firewall?](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/security/what-is-a-firewall/)
9. [Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dynamic-host-configuration-protocol-dhcp/), [DORA process?](https://www.gns3network.com/what-is-dora-process-in-dhcp/)
10. [What happens when you type google.com in browser?](https://medium.com/@maneesha.wijesinghe1/what-happens-when-you-type-an-url-in-the-browser-and-press-enter-bb0aa2449c1a), [in more details here](https://github.com/alex/what-happens-when/blob/master/README.rst)
11. [DNS?](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/what-is-dns/), [DNS link2](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/what-is-dns/)
12. [TCP and UDP differences?](javatpoint.com/tcp-vs-udp), [TCP](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computers-and-internet/xcae6f4a7ff015e7d:the-internet/xcae6f4a7ff015e7d:transporting-packets/a/transmission-control-protocol--tcp), [UDP](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computers-and-internet/xcae6f4a7ff015e7d:the-internet/xcae6f4a7ff015e7d:transporting-packets/a/user-datagram-protocol-udp)
13. [TCP 3-way handshake?](http://www.tcpipguide.com/free/t_TCPConnectionEstablishmentProcessTheThreeWayHandsh-3.htm)
14. [IPv4 and IPv6 differences?](https://www.guru99.com/difference-ipv4-vs-ipv6.html), [IPv4](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-and-ipv4-datagram-header/), [IPv4 and IPv6 more details](https://www.cisco.com/en/US/technologies/tk648/tk872/technologies_white_paper0900aecd8054d37d.html), [IPv6](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/internet-protocol-version-6-ipv6-header/)
15. [tracert](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/tracert), [netstat](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/netstat), [ping](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/ping), [ipconfig](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/ipconfig)/[ifconfig](https://linux.die.net/man/8/ifconfig), [telnet](https://www.javatpoint.com/computer-network-telnet), [telnet command](https://www.javatpoint.com/linux-telnet-command)
16. [Gateways?](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/what-are-gateways-in-computer-network)
17. [subnetting, subnet mask?](https://www.guru99.com/subnetting-subnet-mask.html), [link2 on this](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/network-layer/what-is-a-subnet/), [link3 more details including CIDR](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/understanding-ip-addresses-subnets-and-cidr-notation-for-networking)
18. [Encryption, what is it? what's the importance?](https://www.javatpoint.com/computer-network-privacy)
19. [proxy server? what is the role of proxy server?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-proxy-server/)
20. [Network devices - Hub, switch and router?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/network-devices-hub-repeater-bridge-switch-router-gateways/)
21. [ICMP](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ddos/glossary/internet-control-message-protocol-icmp/)
22. [Media Access Control - MAC](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-of-mac-address-in-computer-network/)?
23. [What is localhost, 127.0.0.1?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-local-host/)
24. [Address Resolution Protocol - ARP](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-address-resolution-protocol-arp-works/)?
25. [Fragmentation](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/fragmentation-network-layer/) - [MSS](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/network-layer/what-is-mss/)/[MTU?](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/network-layer/what-is-mtu/)
26. [Packet segmentation?](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Packet_segmentation)
27. [Error control, Flow control](https://www.javatpoint.com/data-link-controls), [Error control techniques?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/error-control-in-data-link-layer/)
28. [SMTP?](https://www.javatpoint.com/simple-mail-transfer-protocol), [POP3](https://www.javatpoint.com/pop-protocol), [differences](https://www.hostinger.in/tutorials/email/pop3-imap-smtp-protocols-explained-ports)
29. [CSMA/CD and CSMA/CA?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/carrier-sense-multiple-access-csma/)
30. [Routing Information Protocol - RIP](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/routing-information-protocol-rip/), [How routing works on internet?](https://medium.com/@User3141592/how-does-the-internet-work-edc2e22e7eb8), [link2 on this](https://cromwell-intl.com/networking/routing.html)
31. [Data encapsulation?](https://afteracademy.com/blog/what-is-data-encapsulation-and-de-encapsulation-in-networking), [link2 on this](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E19455-01/806-0916/ipov-32/index.html)
32. [Network Interface Card - NIC](https://www.javatpoint.com/network-interface-card)?
33. [Ethernet?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/local-area-network-lan-technologies/)
34. [peer-to-peer network](https://in.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/peer-to-peer-network), [P2P and server based network?](https://afteracademy.com/blog/what-are-peer-to-peer-networks-and-server-based-networks)
35. [Network virtualization](https://blog.gigamon.com/2018/01/04/network-virtualization-optimize/)
36. [Open Shortest Path First - OSPF?](https://www.javatpoint.com/ospf-protocol)
37. [What happens when you type a URL in the browser and press enter?](https://medium.com/@maneesha.wijesinghe1/what-happens-when-you-type-an-url-in-the-browser-and-press-enter-bb0aa2449c1a)

### Social Media links
##### :point_right: Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/msdeep14/
##### :point_right: LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/msdeep14/
##### :point_right: GitHub: https://github.com/msdeep14

### Good luck :v:
