csa/csa-interview.md, before:

# Cloud Support Engineer/DevOps Support Engineer INTERVIEW PREPARATION
The below guide should prove to be useful if you're interested in Cloud Support/DevOps profile in any organisation. The profile designation can vary from company to company but the gist is you work on customer problems, troubleshoot and provide a solution.

The interview mostly focused on domain knowledge of Operating System and Computer Networks. If you're a fresher, basic cloud knowledge studied in college curriculum should be enough. Apart from this personal projects can give you some edge over technologies you explored in college. 

In case you're experienced candidate, questions can be specific to previous domain you've worked on.
For example: If you're applying in database domain, then you should know troubleshooting in databases, best practices one should follow, kind of databases and how to choose between multiple options, etc.

Interview process generally consists of online test and F2F interviews. Online test can contains MCQ on core CS concepts and aptitude. Apart from this there could be programming questions with easy/medium difficulty.

## Sample Questions
### Operating System
1. File permissions(chmod command)
2. Hard link and Soft link
3. RAID
4. Linux run levels
5. Producer consumer problem
6. Reader writer's problem
7. Virtual memory and how it works, eg. How will a 5GB game will work on PC with 2GB RAM
8. System performance(CPU, memory, Disk and Network)
9. Linux boot process
10. Mutex vs semaphore
11. Segmentation and Paging[Memory management]
12. Cache and its types, comparison with memory
13. Basic linux commands
14. Disk scheduling algorithms

### Computer Networks
1. OSI model: complete understanding of each layer
2. Domain Name System
3. Subnetting and related calculations
4. All Routing Protocols
5. Hub, Switch, Router, Bridge[All network devices]
6. TCP and UDP comparison
7. TCP handshake
8. Firewall
9. FTP, HTTP, SMTP, POP3, IMAP, HTTPS
10. URL, URI and URN
11. Virtual Private Network(VPN)
12. Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol(DHCP and DORA)
13. Sockets
14. IPv4 and IPv6
15. Private and Public IP address
16. What happens in background when you hit google.com on web browser
17. SSL handshake
18. NAT
19. HTTP error codes
20. Fragmentation
21. Packet segmentation

### Example Troubleshooting Scenarios
1. How can I protect my laptop?
2. PC is slow(troubleshooting steps can vary based on type of machine and OS)
3. Wifi connectivity is slow
4. Website is accessible by entering DNS but not with uri(e.g. working with 52.22.22.22 but not with google.com)

### Programming Questions
As this is DevOps role, the questions should be of easy difficulty level.
In my judgement, this should be easy question - swap two numbers with help of only two variables

### Behavioral Questions
Apart from technical questions, you should prepare for behavioral questions on how you'll handle or react on different kind of situations.

Commit message:

update operating system sample topics and tips

csa/csa-interview.md, after:

# Cloud Support Engineer/DevOps Support Engineer INTERVIEW PREPARATION
The below guide should prove to be useful if you're interested in Cloud Support/DevOps profile in any organisation. The profile designation can vary from company to company but the gist is you work on customer problems, troubleshoot and provide a solution.

The interview mostly focused on domain knowledge of Operating System and Computer Networks. If you're a fresher, basic cloud knowledge studied in college curriculum should be enough. Apart from this personal projects can give you some edge over technologies you explored in college. 

In case you're experienced candidate, questions can be specific to previous domain you've worked on.
For example: If you're applying in database domain, then you should know troubleshooting in databases, best practices one should follow, kind of databases and how to choose between multiple options, etc.

Interview process generally consists of online test and F2F interviews. Online test can contains MCQ on core CS concepts and aptitude. Apart from this there could be programming questions with easy/medium difficulty.

## Sample Questions
### Operating System
1. File permissions(chmod command)
2. Hard link and Soft link
3. RAID
4. Linux run levels
5. Producer consumer problem
6. Reader writer's problem
7. Virtual memory and how it works, eg. How will a 5GB game will work on PC with 2GB RAM
8. System performance(CPU, memory, Disk and Network)
9. Linux boot process
10. Mutex vs semaphore
11. Segmentation and Paging[Memory management]
12. Page faults, how it's handled?
12. Cache and its types, comparison with memory, differences in RAM and ROM
13. Basic linux commands
14. CPU scheduling algorithms 
15. Disk scheduling algorithms
15. Process and threads. What are they? what are the differences?
16. zombie process, what will you detect? How to handle?
17. Deadlock, necessary conditions for deadlock, its prevention strategy
18. Handling Thrashing

I prepared for operating system from video tutorials by Prof. P.K. Biswas, IIT KGP

### Computer Networks
1. OSI model: complete understanding of each layer
2. Domain Name System
3. Subnetting and related calculations
4. All Routing Protocols
5. Hub, Switch, Router, Bridge[All network devices]
6. TCP and UDP comparison
7. TCP handshake
8. Firewall
9. FTP, HTTP, SMTP, POP3, IMAP, HTTPS
10. URL, URI and URN
11. Virtual Private Network(VPN)
12. Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol(DHCP and DORA)
13. Sockets
14. IPv4 and IPv6
15. Private and Public IP address
16. What happens in background when you hit google.com on web browser
17. SSL handshake
18. NAT
19. HTTP error codes
20. Fragmentation
21. Packet segmentation

### Example Troubleshooting Scenarios
1. How can I protect my laptop?
2. PC is slow(troubleshooting steps can vary based on type of machine and OS)
3. Wifi connectivity is slow
4. Website is accessible by entering DNS but not with uri(e.g. working with 52.22.22.22 but not with google.com)

### Programming Questions
As this is DevOps role, the questions should be of easy difficulty level.
In my judgement, this should be easy question - swap two numbers with help of only two variables

### Behavioral Questions
Apart from technical questions, you should prepare for behavioral questions on how you'll handle or react on different kind of situations.

### Tips and Suggestions
* I combined multiple topics in above list of topics. In interviews, generally you're evaluated on how well you understand the system and not just memorizing the definitions.
